README.md, before:

# BenBristow.EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination

[![Build/Test/Publish](https://github.com/benbristow/EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination/actions/workflows/cicd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/benbristow/EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination/actions/workflows/cicd.yml)

This library provides an easy-to-use extension for paginating `IQueryable<T>` objects in Entity Framework Core, allowing
for efficient, dynamic pagination of database queries.

## Getting Started

### Installation

To install the library, use the following NuGet command:

```bash
dotnet add package BenBristow.EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination
```

### Basic Usage

1. **Reference the library** in your project by adding `using BenBristow.EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination.Extensions;`.

2. **Paginate your query** by calling `ToPaginationResultAsync` on any `IOrderedQueryable<T>` object, specifying the
   desired page and page size.

Example:

```csharp
var paginatedResults = await myDbContext.MyEntities
    .OrderBy(entity => entity.Id)
    .ToPaginationResultAsync(page: 1, pageSize: 10);
```

### Usage with Projection

You can also use projection to select specific fields or transform the results while paginating:

```csharp
var paginatedResults = await myDbContext.MyEntities
    .OrderBy(entity => entity.Id)
    .ToPaginationResultAsync(
        entity => new MyDto { Id = entity.Id, Name = entity.Name },
        page: 1,
        pageSize: 10
    );
```

## API Reference

### `ToPaginationResultAsync<T>`

Paginates the source `IQueryable<T>` based on the provided parameters.

#### Parameters

- `source`: The ordered `IQueryable<T>` source to paginate.
- `page`: The page number to retrieve. Defaults to 1.
- `pageSize`: The number of items per page. Can be `null` to return all items.
- `cancellationToken`: A token to observe while waiting for the task to complete.

#### Returns

A `Task<PaginationResult<T>>` representing the asynchronous operation, containing the paginated results.

### `ToPaginationResultAsync<TSource, TResult>`

Paginates the source `IQueryable<TSource>` and projects the results to `TResult` based on the provided parameters.

#### Parameters

- `source`: The ordered `IQueryable<TSource>` source to paginate.
- `projection`: A function to map each element of `TSource` to `TResult`.
- `page`: The page number to retrieve. Defaults to 1.
- `pageSize`: The number of items per page. Can be `null` to return all items.
- `cancellationToken`: A token to observe while waiting for the task to complete.

#### Returns

A `Task<PaginationResult<TResult>>` representing the asynchronous operation, containing the paginated and projected results.

## Example

```csharp
public class MyEntityService
{
    private readonly MyDbContext _context;
    
    public MyEntityService(MyDbContext context)
    {
        _context = context;
    }

    /// <summary>
    /// Asynchronously gets paginated entities.
    /// </summary>
    /// <param name="page">The page number to retrieve, starting from 1.</param>
    /// <param name="pageSize">The number of items per page.</param>
    /// <returns>A task that represents the asynchronous operation. The task result contains the paginated results.</returns>
    public async Task<PaginationResult<MyEntity>> GetPaginatedEntities(int page = 1, int pageSize = 10)
    {
        var paginatedResults = await _context.Entities
            .OrderBy(e => e.Id)
            .ToPaginationResultAsync(page, pageSize);

        return paginatedResults;
    }

    /// <summary>
    /// Asynchronously gets paginated entities with projection to DTOs.
    /// </summary>
    /// <param name="page">The page number to retrieve, starting from 1.</param>
    /// <param name="pageSize">The number of items per page.</param>
    /// <returns>A task that represents the asynchronous operation. The task result contains the paginated and projected results.</returns>
    public async Task<PaginationResult<MyEntityDto>> GetPaginatedEntityDtos(int page = 1, int pageSize = 10)
    {
        var paginatedResults = await _context.Entities
            .OrderBy(e => e.Id)
            .ToPaginationResultAsync(
                e => new MyEntityDto { Id = e.Id, Name = e.Name },
                page,
                pageSize
            );

        return paginatedResults;
    }
}
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue for any bugs or feature requests.

## License

This project is licenced under the GPL v3 or later license.

Commit message:

feat: add Empty method to PaginationResult

README.md, after:

# BenBristow.EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination

[![Build/Test/Publish](https://github.com/benbristow/EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination/actions/workflows/cicd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/benbristow/EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination/actions/workflows/cicd.yml)

This library provides an easy-to-use extension for paginating `IQueryable<T>` objects in Entity Framework Core, allowing
for efficient, dynamic pagination of database queries.

## Getting Started

### Installation

To install the library, use the following NuGet command:

```bash
dotnet add package BenBristow.EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination
```

### Basic Usage

1. **Reference the library** in your project by adding `using BenBristow.EntityFrameworkCore.Pagination.Extensions;`.

2. **Paginate your query** by calling `ToPaginationResultAsync` on any `IOrderedQueryable<T>` object, specifying the
   desired page and page size.

Example:

```csharp
var paginatedResults = await myDbContext.MyEntities
    .OrderBy(entity => entity.Id)
    .ToPaginationResultAsync(page: 1, pageSize: 10);
```

### Usage with Projection

You can also use projection to select specific fields or transform the results while paginating:

```csharp
var paginatedResults = await myDbContext.MyEntities
    .OrderBy(entity => entity.Id)
    .ToPaginationResultAsync(
        entity => new MyDto { Id = entity.Id, Name = entity.Name },
        page: 1,
        pageSize: 10
    );
```

## API Reference

### `ToPaginationResultAsync<T>`

Paginates the source `IQueryable<T>` based on the provided parameters.

#### Parameters

- `source`: The ordered `IQueryable<T>` source to paginate.
- `page`: The page number to retrieve. Defaults to 1.
- `pageSize`: The number of items per page. Can be `null` to return all items.
- `cancellationToken`: A token to observe while waiting for the task to complete.

#### Returns

A `Task<PaginationResult<T>>` representing the asynchronous operation, containing the paginated results.

### `ToPaginationResultAsync<TSource, TResult>`

Paginates the source `IQueryable<TSource>` and projects the results to `TResult` based on the provided parameters.

#### Parameters

- `source`: The ordered `IQueryable<TSource>` source to paginate.
- `projection`: A function to map each element of `TSource` to `TResult`.
- `page`: The page number to retrieve. Defaults to 1.
- `pageSize`: The number of items per page. Can be `null` to return all items.
- `cancellationToken`: A token to observe while waiting for the task to complete.

#### Returns

A `Task<PaginationResult<TResult>>` representing the asynchronous operation, containing the paginated and projected results.

### `PaginationResult<T>.Empty(...)`

Creates an empty `PaginationResult<T>` with sensible defaults. Useful when there are no results to display (e.g., an empty search) and you still want to return a valid pagination shape without performing a query.

#### Parameters

- `pageSize` (optional): The number of items per page. If provided, `PageSize` is set to this value; if omitted, `PageSize` is `null`.

#### Returns

An empty `PaginationResult<T>` with the following defaults:

- `Results`: empty collection
- `TotalCount`: `0`
- `Page`: `1`
- `PageCount`: `1`
- `PageSize`: `null` (or the supplied `pageSize`)

#### Example

```csharp
// Return an empty result (no page size)
return PaginationResult<MyDto>.Empty();

// Return an empty result but preserve a desired page size in the response
return PaginationResult<MyDto>.Empty(pageSize: 25);
```

## Example

```csharp
public class MyEntityService
{
    private readonly MyDbContext _context;
    
    public MyEntityService(MyDbContext context)
    {
        _context = context;
    }

    /// <summary>
    /// Asynchronously gets paginated entities.
    /// </summary>
    /// <param name="page">The page number to retrieve, starting from 1.</param>
    /// <param name="pageSize">The number of items per page.</param>
    /// <returns>A task that represents the asynchronous operation. The task result contains the paginated results.</returns>
    public async Task<PaginationResult<MyEntity>> GetPaginatedEntities(int page = 1, int pageSize = 10)
    {
        var paginatedResults = await _context.Entities
            .OrderBy(e => e.Id)
            .ToPaginationResultAsync(page, pageSize);

        return paginatedResults;
    }

    /// <summary>
    /// Asynchronously gets paginated entities with projection to DTOs.
    /// </summary>
    /// <param name="page">The page number to retrieve, starting from 1.</param>
    /// <param name="pageSize">The number of items per page.</param>
    /// <returns>A task that represents the asynchronous operation. The task result contains the paginated and projected results.</returns>
    public async Task<PaginationResult<MyEntityDto>> GetPaginatedEntityDtos(int page = 1, int pageSize = 10)
    {
        var paginatedResults = await _context.Entities
            .OrderBy(e => e.Id)
            .ToPaginationResultAsync(
                e => new MyEntityDto { Id = e.Id, Name = e.Name },
                page,
                pageSize
            );

        return paginatedResults;
    }
}
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue for any bugs or feature requests.

## License

This project is licenced under the GPL v3 or later license.
